## Transfect

Transfect is a library designed for use with React. It provides a view-first
approach to component creation. In particular, you can define your component
hierarchy in plain HTML and have it read from the DOM. The HTML can reference
Transfect components (which are just React components with a little sugar),
which will then be tasked with rendering the template according to their data.

Transfect is based around a simplified CSS vocabulary along with a couple of
helper attributes.

### Sample

Here's how you might define a simple todo list view:

```html
<section id="todo-list" data-transfect="TodoList">
  <h2>Todo List Name!</h2>
  <ul>
    <li data-transfect="TodoList.Item" class="item">
      <label>
        <input type="checkbox">
        %text
      </label>
    </li>
  </ul>
</section>
```

Notice that there is absolutely no logic in this template---iteration, data
interpolation, etc. One of the main goals of transfect is to completely sever
the view from the rendering logic. What we provide instead are two component
invocations, marked by the `data-transfect` attribute. These reference
transfect components that will be passed the invoking element and its child
hierarchy.

Here's how you might bind the above in a simplified world:

```javascript
TodoList =
  Transfect.createComponent({
    transform: function() {
      return {
        "h2 *": "My Todos!",
        ".item $": this.state.todos
      }
    },
  })
TodoList.Item =
  Transfect.createComponent({
    transform: function() {
      return {
        "label %text": this.props.text,
        "@checkbox [checked]": this.props.done,
        "@checkbox [onchange]": emitter(this.props.id, 'todo-state-changed')
      }
    }
  })

transfect('todo-list');
```

This will lift the todo list from the DOM, turn it into a React virtual DOM,
and mount the result. Additionally, it will evaluate the transfect component
invocations and bind the appropriate components where they belong.

Components provide a `transform` method that returns the transformations they
want to apply to their child DOM template. Transformations consist of a bind
expression and a value. The bind expression consists of a selector and a bind
point. The bind points seen above are `*` (replace the content of the element),
`$` (set the props of the component), `%text` (find the placeholder `%text` and
replace it with the value), and `[...]` (set the attribute of an element, or in
React terms a particular prop).

The bind value can be a static reference, but it can also be function. In the
case of binding an event attribute, the function is assigned as an event
handler. However, in all other cases, the function is invoked at bind time with
the element in its current state. The return value of the bind is then used in
place of the element.

You can also provide an array as a bind value. In cases where an array is
provided, the element is cloned and boundonce for each value in the array. This
is why `.item` in the above example will be reproduced once for each value in
the `todos` array.

### Example

A full version of the above example is at
[`examples/todo-list`](examples/todo-list). It requires a `build/` directory
with a react build in it for now, as well as a compiled version of
`transfect.coffee`.

### License

react-transfect is provided under the terms of the MIT License. See the
[`LICENSE`](LICENSE) file in this same directory.

### Author

react-transfect is copyright me, Antonio Salazar Cardozo, and licensed uner the
terms of the MIT License. No warranties are made, express or implied. See the
LICENSE file in this same directory for more details.

I've been known to tweet at http://twitter.com/lightfiend .

I am the UI/UX Team Lead at [Elemica](http://elemica.com/), where we're working
on strapping a rocket to the back of supply chain management to shoot it into
the future using Scala, Lift, and a variety of other cool tools. We're always
lookin' for good folks to work with, so give me a holler if you're looking for
some challenging work that's changing the world in invisible ways.
